In Java, relationships between classes can be categorized into several types:
1. Inheritance (Is-A Relationship):
This relationship represents a parent-child relationship, where the child class (subclass) inherits properties and behaviors from the parent class (superclass).
The keyword extends is used to implement inheritance.
Java

class Animal {
    void eat() {
        System.out.println("Animal is eating");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    void bark() {
        System.out.println("Dog is barking");
    }
}
2. Association (Has-A Relationship):
This relationship represents a connection between two classes where one class contains an object of another class as a member variable.
It signifies that one class "has-a" relationship with another class.
Java

class Car {
    Engine engine;

    Car(Engine engine) {
        this.engine = engine;
    }
}

class Engine {
    void start() {
        System.out.println("Engine started");
    }
}
Types of Association:
One-to-One:
One object of a class is associated with one object of another class.
One-to-Many:
One object of a class is associated with multiple objects of another class.
Many-to-One:
Multiple objects of a class are associated with one object of another class.
Many-to-Many:
Multiple objects of a class are associated with multiple objects of another class.
3. Aggregation (Has-A Relationship - Weaker Form):
This is a special type of association where the contained object can exist independently of the containing object.
Example: A car has wheels, but wheels can exist independently of the car.
4. Composition (Has-A Relationship - Stronger Form):
This is a special type of association where the contained object cannot exist independently of the containing object.
Example: A house has rooms, but rooms cannot exist independently of the house.
5. Interface Implementation (Can-Do Relationship):
This relationship represents a class implementing an interface, where the class agrees to provide the behaviors specified in the interface.
The keyword implements is used for this relationship.
Java

interface Shape {
    void draw();
}

class Circle implements Shape {
    void draw() {
        System.out.println("Drawing a circle");
    }
}
Choosing the right relationship:
Use inheritance for "is-a" relationships.
Use association for "has-a" relationships.
Use aggregation for "has-a" relationships where the contained object can exist independently.
Use composition for "has-a" relationships where the contained object cannot exist independently.
Use interface implementation when a class needs to provide specific behaviors defined by an interface.